# Empowering analysts to perform financial statement analysis , hypothesis testing  and cause-effect analysis efficiently with Anthropic Claude 3 on Amazon Bedrock

## Introduction

Prompt engineering and advanced prompting are powerful techniques that allow users to guide and shape the behavior of large language models (LLMs). By crafting well-designed prompts, business users and analysts in financial services can leverage the knowledge and capabilities of LLMs with enterprise-specific information to perform a wide range of tasks with remarkable effectiveness and efficiency. The strength of prompt engineering lies in its ability to distill complex queries or instructions into concise, yet expressive prompts that can elicit highly relevant and coherent responses. This technique enables business users to leverage the model's natural language understanding, reasoning and generation capabilities to tackle challenges ranging from text summarization, data analysis and interpretation, and financial calculations. Advanced prompting techniques, such as few-shot learning and chain-of-thought prompting, further enhance the models' performance by providing exemplars or step-by-step reasoning processes, enabling them to exhibit human-like reasoning and problem-solving abilities. Prompt engineering and advanced prompting empower analysts to harness the full potential of LLMs as well as their hidden reasoning capabilities. Using Anthropic's Claude 3 Sonnet model on Amazon Bedrock with financial data can enable financial analysts to provide contextual insights from various data modalities (image, text) combining with advanced prompting. It can help enhance analysts' productivity through the ability to perform financial analysis and calculations efficiently using natural language (English) prompts, thereby reducing time.

## Dive deeper into the solution

Financial analysis examines a company's performance within the context of its financial statements (revenue, cash flow, asset, liabilities etc.). We show how financial analysts can analyze financial statements (the balance sheet, income statement, and cash flow statement) using Generative AI, [Anthropic's Claude 3 Sonnet](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/anthropics-claude-3-sonnet-foundation-model-is-now-available-in-amazon-bedrock/) on [Amazon Bedrock](https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/), and [prompt engineering](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/prompt-library/library). Dive deep in the solution for [Financial Analysis including codes](https://github.com/aws-samples/generativeai-aiml-capital-market-samples/tree/main/hypothesis-testing-financial-statement-analysis-with-Amazon-Bedrock/Financial%20Analysis).


Capital markets customers have access to information about macroeconomic events and index price movements, which can be leveraged by research analysts and quantitative analysts to study the relationship between these events and their impact on index prices. We show how Anthropic's Claude 3 Sonnet on Amazon Bedrock can analyze the impact of macroeconomic events on index prices, incorporating multi-modal data (image and text) with macroeconomic event information, to gain insights like impact of inflation or geopolitics on index price action. Dive deep in the solution for [Hypothesis Testing including codes](https://github.com/aws-samples/generativeai-aiml-capital-market-samples/tree/main/hypothesis-testing-financial-statement-analysis-with-Amazon-Bedrock/Hypothesis%20Testing).


## License
This library is licensed under the [MIT-0 License](https://github.com/aws-samples/generativeai-aiml-capital-market-samples/blob/main/hypothesis-testing-financial-statement-analysis-with-Amazon-Bedrock/LICENSE.txt).

